For Visual Studio Community Edition 2022

Downloading Portal Application into source control

Step 1: Install Power Platform CLI for Visual Studio
        https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/power-platform/developer/cli/introduction

Step 0: Go to Azure DevOps, Under Repos select Files. Copy the https URL of your repository to clone it in Visual Studios

Step 0: Open Visual Studio Community Edition 2022 > Select "Clone Repository" and paste in the URL from Azure DevOps 

Step 2: Go to power platform admin center and get the Environment URL by clicking on the Environment link and seein gthe details

Step 4: In the top menu select "View" tab and select "Terminal" option.

Step 5: You need to connect to your Dataverse environment by executing following command. pac auth create -u https://[Environment_url]  
        This will prompt you to login to your environment account

Step 6: Get the list of available Portals by executing following command. pac paportal list

Step 7: Get the copy the WebSiteId of the portal website you wish to put into source control

Step 8: Now download the website components using following command. pac paportal download –p [PATH] -id [WebSiteId]
        [Path] = Should be the directory on your PC where your cloned Repository is in Step 1.

Step 9: In Visual Studio Community Edition 2022 select "File" from the top tab menu, select "Open", then select "Folder". Select
        the top level folder that you used as your [Path]. Here you can see the portal Project downloaded from Power Platform.

Step 10: In Visual Studio Community Edition 2022, select the "View" from the top menu, then select "Git Changes". Fill out the 
         the comments section "Initial Commit" and then select the dropdown option "Commit All and Push"
	   Note: this is the baseline code "master". No changes should be made to master directly. You can create a CI/CD pipeline
               to publish master into the Power Apps environment once master has been updated. Would suggest adding the gated
		   checkin options for the master branch and also assign atleast one reviewer. 

-- Make changes
Step 1: In Visual Studio Community Edition 2022, at the bottom right corner of your screen where it says "master", click on master
        then select "Create New Branch". This branch should be named after a ticket for easier tracking [MyTaskNumber].
     
Step 2: In Visual Studio Community Edition 2022, open the "Solution Explorer", the "web-pages" folder, then go to "home" folder, then "content-pages", double click
        "Home.en-US.webpage.copy.html" make a change then check in branch by selecting the "Git Changes" tab which should be already open from previously. 
	  Write comment and then "Commit and Push" as before. A "Create a pull Request" link should be present which takes you to Azure Devops. Assign a 
	  reviewer / work item link (this should be in sync with the branch number). Then hit the Create button and complete merge. 

Step 3: Select approve to verify all is correct and then hit "Complete" to merge into "master" branch. 

Step 4: In Visual Studio Community Edition 2022, at the bottom right corner of your screen where it says [MyTaskNumber] and select "master",
        select the "Git Changes" tab and select the solid down arrow to pull the latest version from master branch into your local master branch.
        After your local master has been uploaded with the latest version, delete the merged branch. 


Step 5: Upload the modified website components using following command. pac paportal upload –path [Folder-location]
        [Folder-location] = This should be the folder that matches the Power Apps you changed, with the code inside, not the parent folder
        